Feedly
------

Feedly allows you to build complex feed and caching structures using
Redis and/or Cassandra.

**What is a feed?**

A feed is a stream of content which is created by people or subjects you
follow. Prime examples are the Facebook newsfeed, your Twitter stream or
your Pinterest following page.

Feeds are commonly also called: Activity Streams, activity feeds, news
streams.

**Why is it hard?**

It's very hard to split up data for social sites. You can't easily store
all Facebook users in Brasil on one server and the ones in The
Netherlands on another. One of the recommended approaches to this
problem is to publish your activity (ie a tweet on twitter) to all of
your followers. These streams of content are hard to maintain and keep
up to date, but they are really fast for the user and can easily be
sharded.

**Feedly**

Feedly allows you to easily use Redis and Celery (an awesome task
broker) to build infinitely scalable feeds. The core functionality is
located in 3 core classes.

-  Structures
-  Activities
-  Feeds
-  Feed managers (Feedly)

Structures are basic building blocks wrapping python functionality
around Redis datastructures. There are convenient objects for hashes,
lists and sorted sets.

Activities is the content which is stored in a feed. It follows the
nomenclatura from the [activity stream spec][astream] [astream]:
http://activitystrea.ms/specs/atom/1.0/#activity.summary Every activity
therefor stores at least:

-  Time (the time of the activity)
-  Verb (the action, ie loved, liked, followed)
-  Actor (the user id doing the action)
-  Object (the object the action is related to)
-  Extra context (Used for whatever else you need to store at the
   activity level)

Optionally you can also add a target (which is best explained in the
activity docs)

Feeds are sorted containers of activities. They extend upon the data
structures and add custom serialization logic and behavior.

Feedly classes (feed managers) Handle the logic used in addressing the
feed objects. They handle the complex bits of fanning out to all your
followers when you create a new object (such as a tweet).

In addition there are several utility classes which you will encounter

-  Serializers (classes handling serialization of Activity objects)
-  Aggregators (utility classes for creating smart/computed feeds based
   on algorithms)
-  Marker (FeedEndMarker, marker class allowing you to correctly cache
   an empty feed)

**Example**

.. code:: python

    #Feedly level, on the background this spawns hundreds of tasks to update the feeds of your followers
    love_feedly.add_love(love)
    love_feedly.remove_love(love)
    #Follow a user, adds their content to your feed
    love_feedly.follow_user(follow)
    love_feedly.unfollow_user(follow)

    #Feed level, show the activities stored in the feed
    feed = LoveFeed(user_id)
    loves = feed[:20]

**Admin Interface**

You can find a basic admin interface at /feedly/admin/ Note that it's
currently still tied into Fashiolista's use cases. So this is one which
will definitely require forking.

**Features**

Feedly uses celery and redis to build a system which is heavy in terms
of writes, but very light for reads.

-  Asynchronous tasks (All the heavy lifting happens in the background,
   your users don't wait for it)
-  Reusable components (You will need to make tradeoffs based on your
   use cases, Feedly doesnt get in your way)
-  It supports distributed redis calls (Threaded calls to multiple redis
   servers)

**Tradeoffs**

*Store Serialized activities or ids in the feed* Every feed contains a
list of activities. But do you store the data for this activity per
feed, or do you only store the id and cache the activity data. If you
store the activity plus data your feed's memory usage will increase. If
you store the id you will need to make more calls to redis upon reads.
In general you will want to store the id to reduce memory usage. Only
for notification style feeds which require aggregation (John and 3 other
people started following you) you might consider including the data
neccesary to determine the unique keys for aggregation.

*Fallback to the database?* In general I recommend starting with the
database as a fallback. This allows you to get used to running the feed
system in production and rebuilt when you eventually lose data. If your
site is already quite large and you want to support multiple content
types (Facebook allows pictures, messages etc. Twitter only supports
messages.) it will become impossible to rebuild from the database at
some point. If that's the case you need to be sure you have the skills
to properly setup persistence storage on your redis slaves.

**Background Articles**

A lot has been written about the best approaches to building feed based
systems. Here's a collection on some of the talks:

`Etsy feed
scaling <http://www.slideshare.net/danmckinley/etsy-activity-feeds-architecture/>`__
(Gearman, separate scoring and aggregation steps, rollups - aggregation
part two)

`Facebook
history <http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Facebook-Software-Stack>`__

[Django project, with good naming conventions.][djproject] [djproject]:
http://justquick.github.com/django-activity-stream/
http://activitystrea.ms/specs/atom/1.0/ (actor, verb, object, target)

`Quora post on best
practises <http://www.quora.com/What-are-best-practices-for-building-something-like-a-News-Feed?q=news+feeds>`__

`Quora scaling a social network
feed <http://www.quora.com/What-are-the-scaling-issues-to-keep-in-mind-while-developing-a-social-network-feed>`__

`Redis ruby
example <http://blog.waxman.me/how-to-build-a-fast-news-feed-in-redis>`__

`FriendFeed
approach <http://backchannel.org/blog/friendfeed-schemaless-mysql>`__

`Thoonk setup <http://blog.thoonk.com/>`__

`Yahoo Research
Paper <http://research.yahoo.com/files/sigmod278-silberstein.pdf>`__

`Twitter’s approach <http://www.slideshare.net/nkallen/q-con-3770885>`__

`Cassandra at
Instagram <http://planetcassandra.org/blog/post/instagram-making-the-switch-to-cassandra-from-redis-75-instasavings>`__

**Scalable Notification Systems**

Fortunately building a scalable notification system is almost entirely
identical to an activity feed. There is a feed, it is sometimes
aggregated (grouped) and it contains activity. It has a different
purpose for the user:

-  show activity on your account vs
-  activity by your followers

From a tech standpoint though, the implementations are almost identical.
The main objects are:

-  AggregatedActivity (Stores many activities)
-  Activity (Actor, Verb, Object, Target)
-  Verb

Activities are best explained with a small example:

Tommaso added your find to his list "back in black"
Activity(actor=Tommaso, verb=Add, object=find, target=list) Vannesa
loved your find Activity(actor=Vannesa, verb=Love, object=find) Tommaso
loved your find Activity(actor=Tommaso, verb=Love, object=find)

For notification you will often collapse the last two into:

Tommaso and Vanessa loved your find
AggregatedActivity(group=loved\_find\_today, first\_seen, last\_seen,
activities, seen\_at, read\_at)

The storage and access logic is handled using three classes

-  NotificationFeedly (Integration between your app and the data
   structure)
-  NotificationFeed (Handles serialization and redis communication to
   store your aggregated activities)
-  Aggregator (Determines when to aggregated several activities into an
   aggregated activity)

Tutorial

Step 1 - Subclass NotificationFeed

.. code:: python

    class MyNotificationFeed(NotificationFeed):
        def get_aggregator(self):
            aggregator_class = RecentVerbAggregator
            aggregator = aggregator_class()
            return aggregator

Step 2 - Subclass the aggregator

.. code:: python

    class RecentVerbAggregator(BaseAggregator):
        '''
        Aggregates based on the same verb and same time period
        '''
        def get_group(self, activity):
            '''
            Returns a group based on the day and verb
            '''
            verb = activity.verb.id
            date = activity.time.date()
            group = '%s-%s' % (verb, date)
            return group

Step 3 - Test adding data

.. code:: python

    feed = MyNotificationFeed(user_id)
    activity = Activity(
        user_id, LoveVerb, object_id, influencer_id, time=created_at,
        extra_context=dict(entity_id=self.entity_id)
    ) 
    feed.add(activity)
    print feed[:5]

Step 4 - Subclass NotificationFeedly
``python # See feedly/notification_feedly for a full example  class MyNotificationFeedly(Feedly):     '''     Abstract the access to the notification feed     '''     def add_love(self, love):         feed = MyNotificationFeed(user_id)         activity = Activity(             love.user_id, LoveVerb, love.id, love.influencer_id,             time=love.created_at, extra_context=dict(entity_id=self.entity_id)         )          feed.add(activity)``

**Choosing a storage layer**

Currently feedly supports both Cassandra and Redis as storage backends.

**Redis**

PROS:

-  Easy to install
-  Super reliable
-  Easy to maintain
-  Very fast

CONS:

-  Expensive memory only storage
-  Manual sharding

Redis stores data in memory. This makes sure that all operations are
always fast. It does however mean that you might need a lot of storage.

A common approach is therefor to use Redis storage for some of your
feeds and fall back to your database for less frequently requested data.

Twitter currently uses this approach and Fashiolista has used a system
like this in the first halve of 2013.

The great benefit of using Redis comes in easy of install, reliability
and maintainability. Basically it just works and there's little you need
to learn to maintain it.

If you want to add a new machine to your Redis cluster you will lose
part of your data. As long as you can repopulate this data from your
database this isn't a problem.

In conclusion I believe Redis is your best bet if you can fallback to
the database. You need that fallback to make sure - Your storage costs
stay under control - You can easily bring up new redis servers

**Cassandra**

PROS:

-  Stores to disk
-  Automatic sharding

CONS:

-  Hard to install
-  Hard to maintain

Cassandra stores data to both disk and memory. Instagram has therefor
recently switched from Redis to Cassandra. Storing data to disk can
potentially be a big cost saving.

In addition adding new machines to your Cassandra cluster is a breeze.
Cassandra will automatically distribute the data to new machines.

Cassandra is a very good option, but harder to setup and maintain than
Redis.

**Hbase**

PROS:

-  Stores to disk

CONS:

-  Very hard to install
-  Very hard to maintain

Currently HBase isn't yet supported with Feedly. However writing a
storage backend should be quite easy.

**Developing Feedly**

Clone the github repo and type vagrant up in the root directory of the
project to bring up a vagrant machine running the pinterest example.

vagrant ssh python manage.py runserver

visit 192.168.50.55

**Testing Cassandra clustering**

You can start a cassandra test server by going to

vagrant/cassandra and typing vagrant up
